https://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052702304203604577396221780005972
Best of the Web/By   James Taranto/May 10, 2012/Best of the Web
              
            

      

    


  

  Why Obama Flipped

    Victory has a thousand fathers, but defeat has two mommies.

Last night brought an email from Barack Obama with the subject line "Marriage." It began: "James--Today, I was asked a direct question and gave a direct answer." What drove Obama to do something so wildly out of character?
Money, for one thing. The
reported the other day that "about one in six of Obama's top campaign 'bundlers' are gay . . . making it difficult for the president to defer the matter." Lefty Post blogger
added:

adds that "many in Hollywood" have "been privately sharing" the view that "the Obama presidency has been a flop. . . . But, as if on cue, Obama may have changed the narrative Wednesday in one bold move--the kind of transformative act those in Hollywood have been waiting for."
Not that there's anything wrong with a politician listening to his financial supporters. Though don't hold your breath waiting for the New York Times to denounce this as an example of the corrupting influence of political money.
One shouldn't discount sheer moral vanity as a motivator either. Yahoo! News's
speculates that "in moral terms, it is quite possible that Obama could not personally endure further equivocation." Late last night Obama (via his campaign account,
) tweeted a photo of himself looking skyward, with a quote from himself: " 'Same-sex couples should be able to get married.'--President Obama." The text of the tweet read simply: "History."
It is possible that Obama's self-love amplifies the workings of the Taranto principle by making him and his advisers especially sensitive to elite liberal opinion. "In the end, people close to the president say, it wasn't a close call,"
reports:
You have to love both the cynicism and the self-contradiction of carefully calibrating a major change in position in order to serve the purpose of making the other guy look like a flip-flopper. But the bit about the Times and the Post rings 100% true, doesn't it?
What does it mean for November? The president himself, in his "
" interview, feigned nonchalance. "It'd be hard to argue that somehow this is--something that I'd be doin' for political advantage--because frankly, you know--you know, the politics, it's not clear how they cut." Frankly!
Many of Obama's supporters in the media agree with him on the substance and are simply delighted that he has finally made public that he agrees with them. Their enthusiasm provides support for
's assertion that social issues constitute the left's "irreplaceable ideological core. . . . The left keeps putting these issues into the mix, and they do it very deliberately, and I think they do it as a matter of principle."
But this ideological fervor renders suspect their evaluations of the likely political consequences, which are remarkably blasé. "A Historic Moment, but One With Little Electoral Effect" is the headline on a Washington Post post by
:
We tend to agree with that last "guess," but how could Bernstein fail to realize that Obama's high-profile preening about his making "history" constitutes the kind of "pushing hard" that is politically risky?
And while it's no doubt true that Mitt Rommey runs a risk if he sounds harsh or obsessive in his opposition to same-sex marriage, it remains the case that he is on the side of public opinion. Victory has a thousand fathers, as John F. Kennedy observed, but defeat has two mommies. Every state that has cast a ballot on the question has voted against same-sex marriage, including three socially liberal ones (California, Maine and Oregon). North Carolina, which Obama carried in 2008, did so just this week by a vote of 61% to 39%.
To be sure, same-sex marriage is less unpopular than it used to be. Legislatures in several states have enacted it without being ordered to do so by the courts, and by now there probably are a few states in which it would be approved in a plebiscite. Not among them, however, are any of what are generally considered the swing states in this year's election, with the possible exception of New Hampshire.
National Journal's
argues that Obama's announcement "reflects a hard-headed acknowledgment of the changing nature of the Democratic electoral coalition":
So Obama makes up for ceding the squares and the crackers by picking up the hipsters and the eggheads. The average age of a Democratic voter drops, while the average IQ rises. Like Spinal Tap, the president's appeal is becoming more selective.
But there are two problems with this analysis. First, squares tend to be much more reliable about actually going to the polls than hipsters do, and there aren't enough eggheads who aren't already with the Democrats to make up for the lost crackers.
Second, Brownstein seems to be taking only white voters into account. The Democratic coalition depends on overwhelming support from blacks and strong support from Hispanics. Blacks and Hispanics alike are less apt than whites to support same-sex marriage. When California passed Proposition 8 in 2008,
showed it had the support of 70% of blacks, 53% of Latinos and only 49% of whites. (Brownstein concedes this point in a
, though his emphasis again is on the inverse correlation between age and support for same-sex marriage, which holds for minorities as well as whites.)
Obama's support for same-sex marriage is almost certain to cut into his support among Hispanics and even blacks, leading some to vote for Romney and others to stay home. We'll be very surprised if Obama fails to win a majority of Hispanics and the vast majority of blacks, but seemingly small changes can add up.
Example: Exit polls show that in
, blacks constituted 11% of the presidential electorate. In
that figure rose to 13%. Blacks supported John Kerry over George W. Bush by 88% to 11% and Obama over John McCain by 95% to 4%.
That would mean Kerry got approximately 11.8 million black votes to Bush's 1.5 million, while Obama got 16.2 million to McCain's 0.6 million. Kerry's margin among black voters was 10.3 million, Obama's 15.6 million, an improvement of some 5.3 million, more than half his overall 9.5 million margin. These numbers aren't exact, given the exit polls' margin for error, but they do give a sense of how important a voting bloc can be, even when one party can take a large majority of its support for granted.

seems to realize that Obama's flip isn't likely to help him this November. He argues fancifully that the president has 2016 in mind. If Obama isn't re-elected, Kaus speculates, "I think he's going to run again, Grover Cleveland style." By 2016, Kaus expects public opinion "to have shifted further in favor of this social innovation," so that what is a risky position now will be helpful then.
It does seem to us that Obama may be looking ahead past 2012--to 2013. Remember how bitter and angry the left was last summer, when he looked like a loser--like someone who didn't "fight"? (If not,
.) That's nothing compared to their bitterness after a Romney victory.
But if Obama loses after having endorsed same-sex marriage--and especially if his poll numbers experience an abrupt and permanent decline over the next few days--much of the left's anger will be directed outward, at "homophobic" Middle America. Obama will begin his ex-presidency as a hero and a martyr. Unlike past losers like Jimmy Carter and Al Gore, he won't have to build a single house or lose his mind to rehabilitate himself.
There's a danger in all this, however, for the Democratic Party. The more we think about it, the more it seems to us that
is on to something with her argument that the gay mau-mauing of Obama is a racial humiliation:
If the electoral repudiation of the first black president is widely understood to have resulted from his being pressured to adopt a position the vast majority of blacks find repugnant, perhaps that will be the means by which the half-century-old bond between black America and the Democratic Party is dissolved.


Illinois's junior senator is Mark Kirk, not Ron Kirk as we wrote yesterday (since corrected).


"War Is a Long, Messy Hell"--headline, Slate.com, May 9


"Biden Blamed; Politics Drove Timing"--headline, Politico.com, May 9


"Al Qaeda's Bomb-Makers Evolve, Adapt and Continue to Plot"--headline, CNN.com, May 8


"Obama Buckles on Gay Marriage"--headline, Washington Times, May 10


"It is a natural impulse of all people to live freely in their own truth."--Charles Blow, New York Times website, May 9


"Why the Right Really Hates Obama"--headline, In These Times, May 8


"Are the Indians for Real?"--headline, CBSSports.com, May 9




"Hostess Warns of 380 Possible Layoffs in Michigan"--headline, Times Herald (Port Huron), May 10


"It's Time to Rethink Continuous Improvement"--headline, Harvard Business Review website, May 8




"Why Twitter Grief Deserves Respect"--headline, Daily Telegraph (London), May 10


"Tesla Sedan to Hit Showrooms in June, Earlier Than Planned"--headline, MSNBC.com, May 9


"Romney Stays Firm on Opposition to Gay Marriage"--headline, Christian Science Monitor, May 9


"Bipolar Disorder Has Its Upside, Patients Say"--headline, LiveScience.com, May 9


"Dominic Deville, An Evil Birthday Clown, Stalks Your Child For A Fee"--headline, Puffington Host, May 8




If you thought Democrats were just going to hand their presidential nomination to Barack Obama, think again. "An obscure federal prison inmate gave President Obama an unexpected run for his money in the West Virginia Democratic Primary Tuesday, highlighting the deep dislike for the president in the Appalachian heartland," BuzzFeed.com reports:
As
notes, that was also true of Pat Buchanan in 1992, when he ran against George H.W. Bush. Unlike Judd, Buchanan never topped 40% in any primary, yet he got a prime-time speaking slot at the Republican National Convention. Does Judd deserve any less?
Then again, Buchanan's speech turned out to be problematic, because he used it to announce a cultural war. This time around, Obama has already done that.






(Carol Muller helps compile Best of the Web Today. Thanks to Lynn Bateman, Ed Lasky, Hillel Markowitz, John Sanders, Eric Jensen, David Gerstman, Bruce Goldman, Dennis Paine, David Hallstrom, Jeryl Bier, Brian Kenneally, John Williamson, Josh Scheiderer, Matthew Tanner, Irving Rotter, Bill King, Marion Dreyfus, Richard Wong, Wayne Anderson, Matthew Davis, Ben Nordstrom, Mike Arst, Henry de Fiebre, Robert Godwin, Kyle Kyllan, John McGee, Bren Olswanger, George Mitchell, John Fund, Tom Albergotti, T. Young, Miguel Rakiewicz, Ray Burnham, Curtis Frantz and Robert Murphy. If you have a tip, write us at
, and please include the URL.)

********************************************************************************

