AUTOS - INDUSTRY
UAW to Push Worker-Rights Agenda
By Jeff Bennett
Updated Aug. 2, 2010 5:31 p.m. ET
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich.—The new president of the United Auto Workers union Monday outlined plans to pressure companies in the auto industry and other manufacturing sectors to allow their workers to unionize, and vowed protest actions against any that decline.

The move is part of a strategy by Bob King, who was elected president of the UAW in June, to boost membership in an organization that has seen its ranks decline as the three Detroit auto makers shed workers over the last two decades. During that time, the union has had little success organizing the U.S. workers of foreign-owned auto makers such as Toyota Motor Corp.

In a speech at an auto industry gathering, Mr. King said he planned to ask top executives at nonunionized companies to sign an agreement that acknowledges the right of workers to unionize if they choose.


"If the company agrees to adopt these principles and then abides by these principles, we will respect the decision of their workers whether they choose to join the union or not," Mr. King said at the Management Briefing Seminars, an annual event organized by the Center for Automotive Research, an industry think-tank. "Our goal is not to force auto companies to unionize. It is about democracy."

But, he added, "If the companies do not agree to these principles and instead engage in threatening behavior toward workers who want to organize, or fire workers who try to organize, or close down locations to thwart union activity, the UAW will not tolerate these violations of work First Amendment rights."

Mr. King didn't say what actions the union might take. Its options include picketing, organizing boycotts or applying political pressure.

Mr. King also didn't say what companies might be targeted. When he assumed the leadership post, however, Mr. King vowed to "pound on" Toyota in an effort to organize workers at its U.S. plants.

Toyota on Monday had no comment on Mr. King's proposal, said Mike Goss, manager of external affairs for the auto maker's North American operations. "Representation is a decision to be made by our employees; it is not a company decision," Mr. Goss said. "Our job is to provide good pay and benefits and we feel we do that."

Since assuming office, Mr. King has taken a more strident line than his predecessor, Ron Gettelfinger, who hammered out a number of agreements cutting back union privileges on overtime, health care and wages.

At Toyota, Mr. King has targeted a factory in Fremont, Calif., known as New United Motor Manufacturing Inc., or Nummi. That plant used to be part-owned by GM and had a work force represented by the UAW, but Toyota closed the plant earlier this year. Plans are for the plant to re-open and make electric cars for Tesla Motors Inc. using nonunion labor.

Mr. King has alleged that Toyota ended production in an effort to quash unionization. Toyota says the decision was made for cost reasons. The UAW is picketing 52 Toyota dealerships in California to protest the closing.

The UAW has lost tens of thousands of members in the last few years as General Motors Co., Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Group LLC shuttered plants and streamlined their operations. It now has about 350,000 members. Its membership peaked at 1.5 million in 1979.

In bids to boost membership, the UAW has tried to organize casino workers and university teaching assistants.

Write to Jeff Bennett at jeff.bennett@dowjones.com

RUMBLE SEAT
Boxster's Top Scrapes the Bottom
The nimble Porsche roadster saves weight but adds frustration with a new ragtop—and A/C is extra
Porsche's Boxster Spyder
Porsche's Boxster Spyder DAN NEIL/THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
 
By Dan Neil
Updated July 30, 2010 12:01 a.m. ET
I'd have bet almost anything that Porsche could not get this car wrong. No way. Es ist nicht möglich. Here you have some of the smartest engineers of the Holy Rolling Empire and their mission is to make a lighter, more powerful, more elemental Boxster, an already great little sports car. Is that an easy out, or what?

And yet, to continue the baseball analogy, the Boxster Spyder has the Porsche players manfully sprinting to get under a lazy pop fly, only to collide in the outfield, their great oversized craniums coming together with an awful thwock! I got it! I got it! Damn it, Hans, I thought you had it!


Down Came the Rain and Washed a Porsche Spyder Out
Porsche's Boxster Spyder—a high-zoot, lightweight version of the Boxster S—looks like a mini Carrera GT, which is not a bad thing. But deploying the low-slung top is an awkward, slow affair and, if it's raining, wet, as our Dan Neil found out.
I won't tease you. It's the canvas top, um, apparatus that's to blame here, a covering which one disassembles and assembles—frantically, usually cursing, as rain gently fills the suede bucket seats—much as you would put together one of those lightweight backpacking tents. Never in the word "ragtop" has "rag" been more literal. This thing was designed by drunken kittens. The Spyder canvas makes me long for the leakproof design elegance of my old MG top.


I'm sorry. I'm bitter.

The object of the Spyder exercise was to improve the car's power-to-weight ratio and make it more of a weekend track car, which is a sacred cause, to be sure. The product planners turned up the wick on the feisty 3.4-liter direct-injection flat-six (to 320 horsepower, up from 310 in the Boxster S), lowered the suspension 20 millimeters, tightened the laces—springs, dampers, antiroll bars, wheels and tires. All God's work. Meanwhile, they set out to save weight—176 pounds altogether. Remember, more power plus less weight equals better adrenaline. And so, the Porsche guys installed the carbon-shelled suede racing seats. Wunderbar. They replaced the steel doors with aluminum units. Besser. They also crafted the car's sensational twin-hump aluminum rear decklid, as handsome a car component as ever resembled a dromedary. With the top stowed, this car looks like a bantamweight version of the Carrera GT.

INSIDE THE PORSCHE BOXSTER SPYDER


Porsche's Boxster Spyder DAN NEIL/THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Lovely, soulful, evocative, mission-specific, more nimble than Rimsky-Korsakov's bumblebee, the Boxster Spyder definitely has some game.

But as the weight-saving enumerations continue, they get weirder and less happy. For instance, the Boxster Spyder package deletes the air-conditioning unit, and that can only be replaced at the buyer's cost. Got that? A/C is extra on a $61,200 car. Meanwhile, the Boxster Spyder presupposes a climate that is always dry and always cool, but really, how many cars does Porsche sell in Antarctica?


The car's gas tank has been reduced in capacity by 2.6 gallons because, of course, too much range has always been Porsche's problem. With a max of 14.3 gallons of high-test on board, the Spyder might have less range than a Tesla Roadster.

And speaking of lithium: Want to save 22 pounds? You may sub out the Spyder's lead-acid 12-volt battery with a chic lithium battery. Only problem is that battery costs $1,700. All things considered I think I'd rather cut off my leg.

Here and there, in nibbles and bites, the product planners took as much weight as they could out of the car—which wasn't easy, I'm sure, since the Boxster is a fairly optimized piece of machinery to begin with. And sometimes the product guys were just showing off. The distinctive red nylon-web slings in place of the interior door handles are silly. Yes, those 8 grams are really going to make a difference in your lap times.

RUMBLINGS: 2011 PORSCHE BOXSTER SPYDER

Porsche's Boxster Spyder
Porsche's Boxster Spyder DAN NEIL/THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
The Specs
Base price: $61,200

Price as tested: $67,000 (est.)

Powertrain: Direct-injection 3.4-liter flat six engine with variable valve timing; six-speed manual transmission (optional dual-clutch manual); mechanical limited-slip differential; rear-wheel drive

Horsepower/torque: 320 at 7,200 rpm/273 pound-feet at 4,750 rpm

Length/weight: 172.1 inches/2,811 pounds (est.)

Wheelbase: 95.1 inches

EPA fuel economy: 19/27, 
city/highway

Cargo capacity: 5.3 cubic feet (front), 4.6 cubic feet (rear)

Diet Plate Special
One hundred seventy-six pounds lighter and 10 hp more horsey than the Boxster S, the Boxster Spyder is intended for weekend-warrior duty at the track. With lowered suspension, mid-engine layout, racy tires, and springs and dampers than could teach a Neil Peart a thing or two about percussion, the Spyder has got some major asphalt game. But because the chassis is so ferocious, it tends to make the powertrain feel a little soft in the brisket.

Off With Its Head
The car's signature design flourish is the low-slung canvas top with the flying buttresses. It looks great on the car and great off (note the Carrera GT-like humps on the rear decklid). In between on and off, however, the top is an odyssey of aggravation, a fussy, overly complex nuisance of a mechanism that feels like folding a roadmap in a windstorm.

But here we come to the real villain of the piece, the top, which looks exactly like Mrs. Shrek's garter belt. It's psychotic. To remove this item, first you open the twin-hump tonneau and put down the prop rod. This releases tension on the canvas buttresses that friction-fit into the red hoops on the decklid (and these look very cool, I admit). Rolling up the now-limp buttresses and Velcro-ing them in place on the top, you now reach down into the right side of the tonneau compartment and release a tensioning device on a cable that runs along the rear edge of the top. At this juncture, you wrestle the steel eye-loop off the hook of the tensioner and walk to the other side of the car and do the same at the other end.

Then the whole thing collapses into the cockpit like a dead condor.

Now you have to wriggle under the top and release the header latch, climb back out from under the canvas, and roll up the piece and stow it behind the headrests. However, the rod propping up the tonneau makes this exceedingly difficult. Would a gas strut to hold up the tonneau have been prohibitively hefty? Don't ask me. I studied literature in college.

I suppose this apparatus is lightweight. Porsche estimates the Spyder top assembly represents a 46-pound weight savings over the conventional Boxster convertible mechanism. However, if aggravation were measured by the pound this thing would have the curb weight of the Chrysler Building.

And, by the way, has Porsche ever heard of the Mazda MX-5? Now that's a manual top.

As I said, all the dieting is in the cause of performance, but here's the truth. This car doesn't actually feel that fast in a straight line. I mean, it's fast enough to kill you, sure. The official 0-60 mph acceleration number from Porsche is 4.9 seconds with the six-speed manual transmission—which is how our test car was equipped—or 4.6 seconds with the dual-clutch, seven-speed PDK transmission. I didn't have a chance to do my own acceleration test but let's be generous and shave two-tenths off the factory figure for the six-speed manual. Four-point-seven seconds? Meh.


Speed is primarily a perception and so I think I know what's going on here. First, the Porsches I've been driving lately have all had the dual-clutch gearbox, which is vastly superior to a manual transmission—more efficient, quicker, faster, more exhilarating. Those purists out there still clinging to your six-speed manuals, please go home. Your black-and-white TV is on the fritz.

The PDK allows better and more fluent access to engine torque, which in the Spyder is mostly upstairs (273 pound-feet at 4,750 rpm). With the six-speed manual, the car tends to feel a little soft in the brisket.

Second, the chassis of the Boxster Spyder is so exquisite—so vampiric in grip, so Swiss in neutrality—that it kind of shows up the powertrain. Yes, the car has a terrific mechanical rear limited-slip differential and, yes, it makes sounds that would curl Wagner's hair. In a tight sequence of eases, the Spyder wriggles like a greased eel down a drainpipe. But could I have some more power, please?

No, never mind. I think I'd rather do my Salome impression. Find me the guy who designed the canvas top. Bring me his head on a platter.

—Email Dan at rumbleseat@wsj.com.