AUTOS
Tesla Plans Japan Push
By Chester Dawson and  Yoshio Takahashi
Updated Nov. 15, 2010 12:01 a.m. ET
TOKYO—The head of electric sports-car maker Tesla Motors Inc. said Friday that he expects Japan to become the company's largest market outside the U.S.

Tesla Chief Executive Elon Musk also predicted the luxury auto maker's U.S.-dominated client base will expand steadily overseas so that its sales are split evenly among the U.S., Europe and Asia.

Two of Tesla's major shareholders are Toyota and Panasonic. Above, Elon Musk, chief executive officer of Tesla Motors.
Two of Tesla's major shareholders are Toyota and Panasonic. Above, Elon Musk, chief executive officer of Tesla Motors.
RELATED TESLA VIDEO

digits: Revving Up Electric Cars (07/14/10)
Europe: A Wide-Open Market for Tesla (07/02/10)
digits: Tesla IPO Prices Above Estimates (06/29/10)
Tesla CEO Details New Ferrari-like Leasing Program (02/25/10)
"We do believe Japan will be our No. 2 country in terms of sales over time," Mr. Musk said, speaking at a joint news conference with the CEO of Toyota Motor Corp. "Japan is a key market for the kind of product we produce," he added.

California-based Tesla opened its first showroom in Asia last month in Tokyo's swanky Aoyama district, which comes in addition to six dealerships in Europe, including its newest outlet in Paris that was opened earlier this year.

The company has sold fewer than 1,500 of its $100,000-plus Roadsters, which made their debut earlier this year. It plans to introduce a midsize sports sedan from 2012.


Tesla has strong ties to Japan as two of its major shareholders are corporate titans Toyota and Panasonic Corp.

Earlier this year, Toyota invested $50 million in Tesla, with which it will develop an electric sport-utility vehicle. Panasonic, which provides battery cells to Tesla, injected the company with $30 million on Nov. 6.

Under Tesla's partnership with Toyota, the two companies will collaborate on an electric version of Toyota's RAV4 model using Tesla's battery technology. Limited production of the small sport-utility vehicle will begin at a former Toyota-owned factory in Freemont, Calif., with commercial sales starting in 2012, but there are no current plans for mass production.

One reason may be that Toyota plans to sell its own, independently developed electric vehicle in the U.S. from 2012. Toyota President Akio Toyoda said this ultra-minicar, which is being developed independent of Tesla and is based on its British and Japanese market iQ model, also might be sold in Japan.

Toyota Motors President Akio Toyoda, front, and Tesla Motors CEO Elon Musk drove a Tesla Roadstar from Tesla's showroom to the Lexus showroom in Tokyo on Nov. 12. 
Toyota Motors President Akio Toyoda, front, and Tesla Motors CEO Elon Musk drove a Tesla Roadstar from Tesla's showroom to the Lexus showroom in Tokyo on Nov. 12.
"In Japan, I think customers are probably saying they would use electric vehicles to commute short distances, so we are considering the iQ-based EV," Mr. Toyoda said.

Messrs. Musk and Toyoda spoke to reporters after a ceremony at a dealership of Toyota's luxury Lexus-brand vehicles, just across from Tesla's new Tokyo showroom where a limited-edition Tesla Roadster with a custom "twilight red" paint job was presented to Mr. Toyoda.

The car is a right-hand drive twin of Mr. Musk's own left-hand drive Roadster, which Mr. Toyoda drove during a recent visit to Palo Alto.

Write to Yoshio Takahashi at yoshio.takahashi@dowjones.com
AUTOS
Toyota, Honda Lose U.S. Edge
By Mike Ramsey And  Chester Dawson
Updated Nov. 15, 2010 12:01 a.m. ET
For the past three decades, Japanese auto makers Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co. have experienced almost uninterrupted success in the U.S., their market share rising as they built plants, expanded their model lines and were held up, usually in tandem, as the industry's benchmarks for quality.

Now, as a result of Toyota's recall crisis earlier this year and the narrowing quality gap by rival auto makers, their long run in the driver's seat appears ready to come to an end.

Barring a surge in sales in the last two months of this year, both Honda and Toyota are likely to suffer drops in their U.S. market share. Through the first 10 months of 2010, Toyota's share is down 1.5 percentage points at 15.2%, according to Autodata Corp. So far this year, Honda's U.S. share is down six-tenths of a point at 10.6%.



The last time Toyota's and Honda's market shares failed to rise was 1998, when Toyota's was flat at 8.7% and Honda's fell just one-tenth of a point, to 6.4%, at the height of the sport- utility vehicle boom, before they resumed their march upward.

Larry Kull, a principal of an auto retailing group in Vineland, N.J., that owns stores selling vehicles from Toyota, Honda, Hyundai Motor Corp. and other manufacturers, said Toyota's recalls "obviously" had an impact on its sales.

But "there is no question that some people who would have considered [Toyota models] in the past may not have considered them at the same level," he said by telephone.

Privately, Toyota executives acknowledge they are concerned about Hyundai's fast rise. Hyundai's redesigned mid-sized sedan, the Sonata, has been stealing sales from the Toyota's Camry and Honda's Accord.

Both Toyota and Honda are hoping to generate some much-needed buzz this week at the Los Angeles auto show. Toyota will unveil an electric version of its RAV4 small sport utility vehicle. It uses a battery pack and motor from Tesla Motors Inc., the California start-up that partnered with Toyota earlier this year. Honda will show off its first battery-powered car, as well. Both are due out in 2012—in time for new California zero-emission-vehicle mandates.

The electric vehicles reflect shifts that have taken place in the U.S. market. Only a few years ago, Toyota was the clear leader in advanced, fuel-saving technology with its Prius hybrid. Honda was seen as one of its only serious challengers in hybrids and had put out a hydrogen fuel cell electric car, the FCX Clarity.

Now both are behind in the currently hip battery-electric vehicles. Japan-based Nissan Motor Co.'s Leaf and Detroit-based General Motors Co.'s Chevrolet Volt will both beat Toyota and Honda to the market in the next month or so.

Across the hall at the Los Angeles show will be a more immediate threat. Hyundai, based in South Korea, will introduce a new Elantra compact car promising to get 40 per gallon—better than the 36 offered by Honda's Civic and the 34 of Toyota's Corolla. It also will be priced about $1,500 less.

In an interview, Steve St. Angelo, Toyota's quality chief in North America, said the company knows it faces a tougher market than in the past. "I don't think we will have the kind of growth we had in the past, but we are still going to grow," he said.

For one thing, Toyota's steady gains in market share in the past 20 years came as the company added models in new segments—sport utility vehicles, luxury cars under its Lexus brand and small cars under its Scion line. Now, few open segments are left for easy growth.

This year, Hyundai, Nissan and a revived Ford Motor Co. have all increased their U.S. market share. Hyundai's went to 4.7% from 4.3%, Nissan's increased to 7.8% from 7.4% and Ford's rose to 16.7% from 15.2%.

In 2009, Toyota's share reached a record high of 17%. Then it recalled more than eight million vehicles world-wide to correct defects that could cause its vehicles to suddenly accelerate. It also briefly was required to stop making and selling several models in the U.S., and was further humbled when it was fined by U.S. safety regulators and its executives were called before Congress.

Quality had long been Toyota's top selling point, but the crisis gave consumers reasons to look elsewhere. And what some have found is that other auto makers are now only a half a step behind Toyota and Honda in quality, and in some areas are ahead. The most recent Consumer Reports survey found that while Toyota and Honda still ranked high among the most reliable vehicles, Hyundai and Ford were nearly equal.


In the family-car segment, the Ford Fusion beat sales leaders Toyota Camry and Honda Accord, and sales are up 21% this year, while sales of the Toyota and Honda are off.

Honda's stall out is partly the result of a lull in new model launches. Its redesigned Odyssey minivan is out now and sales are just ramping up. At the same time, it is struggling to sell the Crosstour wagon, which went on sale early this year, and the CR-Z, a hybrid sports car. Its Insight hybrid, released last year, hasn't sold as well as the company had hoped.

Write to Mike Ramsey at michael.ramsey@wsj.com and Chester Dawson at Chester.Dawson@wsj.com

BUSINESS AT A GLANCE
Business Watch
Updated Nov. 5, 2010 12:01 a.m. ET
Autos
Pirelli unveiled a new three-year business plan that aims to boost profit margin by focusing on emerging markets like Latin America. The tire maker said it is targeting an average annual revenue growth rate of 8% and profit margins in the double-digit range in the next three years. The company said it would invest €1.9 billion ($2.68 billion) over five years to upgrade its plants around the world and increase their production capacity for premium tires. Its total output would rise to about 88 million units in 2015 from 61.8 million this year.

Panasonic said it invested $30 million in electric-car maker Tesla Motors in order to cement its relationship with a notable start-up in the fledgling electric-vehicle market and expand its own push into green energy businesses. Panasonic, which currently supplies lithium-ion batteries for Tesla's automobiles, said it now holds around 2% of Tesla shares after purchasing the stock in a private placement at $21.15 per share.

Nissan posted a nearly fourfold increase in net profit in the fiscal second quarter and said it expects to sell a record number of vehicles world-wide this fiscal year. Japan's second-largest car manufacturer by volume said its net profit rose to 101.7 billion yen ($1.25 billion) in the three months ended Sept. 30 from 25.5 billion yen a year earlier.


***
Aviation
Qantas suspended flights of its six Airbus A380 super-jumbo jets after a mid-air engine failure forced an emergency landing in Singapore on Thursday. The engine failure on Sydney-bound flight QF32, carrying 433 passengers and 26 crew, forced a return to Singapore for an emergency landing. According to a representative for the airline, the engine, made by Rolls-Royce Group, was shut down after developing a technical problem. A spokesman for Airbus, a unit of European Aeronautic Defence & Space, said the group will "work closely" with Qantas to determine the cause of the incident.

***
Banks
BNP Paribas, France's largest bank by market capitalization, reported a 46% rise in third-quarter net profit to €1.9 billion ($2.7 billion) as provisions for bad loans continued to shrink and the integration of Belgian bank Fortis gained pace. The Paris-based lender also said that new international banking rules due to be gradually applied between 2013 and 2018 will have "a significant, but manageable impact on the group's risk-weighted assets."

Northern Rock said Chief Executive Gary Hoffman stepped down from the nationalized bank to join NBNK Investments, a vehicle set up by two London financial-sector heavyweights to buy U.K. banking assets. Northern Rock is being prepared for an eventual return to the private sector, although a date for that hasn't been set yet. NBNK has agreed not to make a bid for Northern Rock for a period of 12 months from Nov. 1, the bank said in a statement.

German state-controlled wholesale banks BayernLB and WestLB said they terminated merger talks after just six weeks, dashing hopes for substantial progress on consolidation in the Landesbanken sector.

DBS Group Holdings, southeast Asia's largest bank by assets, posted a 28% rise to a record net profit in the third quarter of 722 million Singapore dollars (US$561.56 million) on the back of higher net trading income and investment gains, but earnings from the bank's mortgage book continued to decline.

***
Conglomerates
Alstom reported a 29% fall in fiscal first-half net profit to €401 million ($566.3 million) as the costs of acquiring its new power grid unit weighed on earnings, but the power engineering and train company confirmed its full-year forecast even as orders remained sluggish. Sales, however, rose 8% to €10.43 billion, as the company incorporated sales from the new power transmission operations it bought from the French nuclear group Areva. Alstom maintained its forecast, saying its overall operating margin should be between 7% and 8% for the current and next fiscal years.

***
Consumer goods
Unilever said its third-quarter net profit rose 19% to €1.25 billion ($1.77 billion), boosted by growth in emerging markets, but cautioned that markets in Europe and the U.S. remain tough. The consumer-products giant said total sales rose 13% to €11.55 billion.

Adidas raised its full-year sales forecast after reporting third-quarter net profit rose 25% to €266 million ($375.6 million), driven by higher sales in all its regional markets and its Reebok unit. The sporting-goods maker said revenue increased 20% to €3.47 billion. For the 2010 fiscal year, Adidas now forecasts sales to rise around 8%, driven by strong growth at Reebok, exposure to emerging markets and the 2010 soccer World Cup. Looking to 2011, Adidas said sales are now expected to increase at a "mid-single-digit rate," with a jump in net profit also expected.

***
Energy
OPEC, whose members produce about 40% of the oil consumed each day in the world, boosted its global oil-demand forecast in the medium term after being surprised by a swifter-than-expected economic turnaround this year. In its annual outlook report, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries upgraded its global oil-consumption forecast by 800,000 barrels a day for 2014, saying it is now "more optimistic regarding the speed of economic recovery." The group noted, for example, evidence that U.S. credit risk is back to normal and Germany's recent exports success.

Cairn India confirmed that its U.K. parent Cairn Energy has sent a letter to Oil & Natural Gas Corp. on the stake sale plan in the Indian unit to Vedanta Resources. ONGC said last month it had asked Cairn Energy to provide full details of the proposed sale of its stake in Cairn India, and the financial strength, technical capability and prior experience of Vedanta in the oil and gas sector. London-listed Vedanta, controlled by Indian billionaire Anil Agarwal, and oil explorer Cairn Energy announced in August it would buy up to 60% of Cairn India for as much as $9.6 billion. Cairn Energy owns 62.36% of Cairn India.


***
Financial services
Zurich Financial Services reported a 22% drop in third-quarter net profit to $751 million after taking a $295 million provision related to a litigation settlement. The Swiss insurance company said business operating profit fell 21% to $1.2 billion, with a $104 million goodwill impairment charge in Russia in the third quarter contributing to the drop.

Swiss Reinsurance said it reached a deal with Berkshire Hathaway to repay a three billion Swiss franc ($3.09 billion) convertible bond—which under the agreement was fixed at 120% of the bond's nominal value—that helped the company stay afloat during the financial crisis. The Zurich-based company also said its net profit rose to $618 million in the three months ended Sept. 30 from $314 million a year earlier, helped by strong underlying reinsurance operations and the absence of a charge the hurt the year-earlier results.

Man Group, the world's largest listed hedge-fund firm which last month completed its acquisition of GLG Partners, recorded a $109 million net profit for the six month-period ended Sept. 30, down 56% from the year-earlier period.

A Mizuho International employee has been arrested on suspicion of insider trading in connection with an investigation by the U.K. Financial Services Authority, a brokerage spokesman said. The company said the FSA is looking into actions carried out by the individual "in a personal capacity."

***
Markets
CBOE Holdings' third-quarter earnings rose 6.8% to $20.5 million, as the operator of the Chicago Board Options Exchange saw its revenue increase despite lower volume. It's just the second quarterly earnings report for CBOE, which is the biggest options exchange in the U.S., as a public company. Volume rose in the second quarter amid May's "flash crash."

***
Media
Time Warner Cable's third-quarter earnings rose 34% to $360 million, as revenue increased, but the company lost subscribers. The second-biggest cable-television provider in the U.S. has seen better results lately, helped by climbing revenue because of growth in its advertising and commercial businesses, as well as added subscribers.


U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable intervened in News Corp.'s proposed £7.8 billion ($12.55 billion) takeover of U.K. pay-television operator British Sky Broadcasting, amid concerns about the media giant's control over the local media landscape.Cable issued an intervention notice, which requires communications regulator Ofcom to investigate "the public interest consideration of media plurality that arises from News Corp.'s proposal," the Department for Business Innovation & Skills said in a statement. Ofcom has to submit a report by Dec. 31.

James Packer and Lachlan Murdoch gained headway in their bid to gain additional seats on the board of Ten Network Holdings, with Chairman Nick Falloon offering to leave the Australian free-to-air broadcaster at their request. The two businessmen aren't pushing for Murdoch to become Ten's new chairman but have rejected a request by Ten for veteran board member Jack Cowin to take on the role, a person familiar with the matter said.

***
Metals and mining
Coal India's shares rose 40% to 342.35 rupees ($7.73) on their first day of trading on the Bombay Stock Exchange. The world's largest coal producer by tonnage had planned to raise $3.43 billion in the initial public offering,India's largest IPO ever.

The Canadian government provisionally rejected BHP Billiton's $38.6 billion bid to buy Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan, in a surprise decision that signals domestic concerns over the protection of national assets and control of natural resources. Industry Minister Tony Clement, who reviewed BHP's bid, said the Anglo-Australian miner had not satisfied the requirement that such a large foreign investment create a "net benefit" for Canada.

***
Technology
Alcatel-Lucent, the Franco-U.S. telecom-equipment maker, swung to a profit and returned to annual revenue growth in the third quarter, driven mainly by strong demand in North America, India, China and Russia. Alcatel said its net profit was €25 million ($35.3 million), compared with a loss of €182 million a year earlier.

Elpida Memory said it swung into a net profit in the July-September quarter due to stronger demand for its memory chips used in smartphones and other consumer electronics. Japan's sole maker of dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, chips, posted a net profit of 9.22 billion yen ($113.6 million) for the fiscal second quarter, compared with a net loss of 7.17 billion yen a year earlier.

***
Telecommunications
Deutsche Telekom posted a 7.9% increase in third-quarter net profit to 1.04 billion euros ($1.5 billion) due to lower tax and interest payments, and refined its full-year outlook for free cash-flow.

***
Transportation
HSBC Holdings said it sold its train rolling stock unit to a consortium led by Morgan Stanley in a deal that values the asset at £2.1 billion ($3.4 billion). The sale represents the last exit by a U.K. high-street bank from the rail rolling stock industry. Royal Bank of Scotland Group and Spain's Banco Santander have recently sold out of holdings in this formerly nationalized industry.

Yamaha Motor said it swung into the black, generating a net profit of 7.29 billion yen ($89.84 million) in the July-September quarter, compared with an 84.04 billion yen net loss a year earlier.

AUTOS - INDUSTRY
Panasonic Invests in Tesla
By Daisuke Wakabayashi And  Juro Osawa
Updated Nov. 4, 2010 2:01 a.m. ET
TOKYO— Panasonic Corp. said it has invested $30 million in electric-car maker Tesla Motors Inc. TSLA 1.76% in order to cement its relationship with a notable start-up in the fledgling electric-vehicle market and expand its own push into green energy businesses.

Panasonic, which currently supplies lithium-ion batteries for Tesla's automobiles, said it now holds around 2% of Tesla shares after purchasing the stock in a private placement at $21.15 per share. Tesla shares rose 52 cents to $21.77 in trading Wednesday on the Nasdaq Stock Market.

Rechargeable batteries for electric and hybrid cars are a main focus of Panasonic's efforts to create a stable of energy-related businesses, including solar panels and fuel cells. Last year, Panasonic acquired a majority stake in onetime rival and rechargeable-battery leader Sanyo Electric Co.


By strengthening their partnership, Panasonic and Tesla plan to jointly market and sell Tesla battery packs using Panasonic's battery cells. Several battery makers currently supply to Tesla, but the U.S. company has picked Panasonic as a preferred supplier of lithium-ion battery cells.

Tesla introduced its first car, the Roadster, in 2008, then a second version last year. It plans to introduce a Model S sedan in 2012, with the goal of producing about 20,000 cars a year.

As bullish growth forecasts predict a sharp increase in demand for lithium-ion batteries to be used in electric cars, auto makers and electronics companies are rushing to strike partnerships to develop and produce the batteries.

Sanyo is working on battery technology with a number of different auto makers including Honda Motor Co. HMC -0.74% and Volkswagen AG VLKAY 1.85% , while Panasonic only has a joint venture with Toyota Motor Co. and supplies Tesla.

Toyota, which invested $50 million in Tesla earlier this year, and Daimler AG DMLRY 0.61% are also shareholders in Palo Alto, Calif.-based Tesla.

Panasonic announced this summer it would raise its investment in Sanyo to a total of about 800 billion yen ($9.91 billion) to make the company a wholly-owned unit in order to speed up decision making and counteract the aggressive investments being made by South Korean rival Samsung Electronics Co.

Panasonic's shift to energy-related businesses comes at a time when the company is struggling to recoup the heavy investments it made in flat-panel televisions, a business plagued by relentless declines in prices and fierce competition.

Write to Daisuke Wakabayashi at Daisuke.Wakabayashi@wsj.com and Juro Osawa at juro.osawa@dowjones.com


