BUSINESS WORLD
To GM, a Bureaucrat Is a Bureaucrat
When it comes to arbitrary demands on auto makers, the U.S. still takes the cake.
By Holman W. Jenkins, Jr.
May 14, 2013 8:16 p.m. ET
Taxpayers bailed out General Motors . Is China now "benefiting" from the bailout because GM is investing in China? Are Americans being shortchanged because they might be offered the opportunity to buy GM cars made in China?

These mercantilist views, recently retailed on this very page by auto writer Ed Niedermeyer, should sound familiar. GM was assailed for investing in China before its bailout too. A GM chief calmly pointed out at the time that GM was making money in China, helping to cover its losses in the U.S. That answer might seem even more satisfactory now that taxpayers are shareholders in the company.

About one thing, though, critics of GM's China ventures are right. Investing in China means weighing potential profit against the arbitrary exactions imposed by Chinese bureaucrats. Unfortunately this represents no point of distinction with the U.S. except that the American approach typically has been to impose ruinous mandates and then bargain over their relaxation.


The all-electric Tesla Roadster 
The all-electric Tesla Roadster CORBIS
Exactly such is the case with the new U.S. and California emissions mandates. As an unnamed Obama official admitted to the New York Times back in 2009: "At some point . . . the drive for profitability is likely to collide with Mr. Obama's fuel-efficiency and low-emission goals."

As a California regulator confided to readers of Automotive News in January, "These [mandates] are living documents—they are written as law but not written in stone."

This may sound like bureaucratic cynicism, but it's worth having some respect for our political system's lubricous talent for finding compromises, however hypocritical, that all interested parties can live with.

Case in point: Thumb through electric-vehicle maker Tesla 's bloggings and see statements demanding speedy implementation of California's zero-emission vehicle program, although Tesla would suffer in the long run from a mandate that requires other car makers to dump electric cars on the market. When Tesla reported its first-ever quarterly profit of $11 million last week, $68 million of its revenues were California zero-emission vehicle credits sold to other car makers.

On the flip side, if there's anything politicians wish not to revisit in their lifetimes, it's the politics of visibly bailing out a major auto maker. Witness the fudge successive administrations of both parties have made and continue to make of Jimmy Carter's fuel-economy rules in order to let Detroit escape through the "light truck" loophole.

Witness Mr. Obama's variation on this theme—his fuel-economy targets, which would require a national average of 54.5 mpg by 2025, only bite after he's safely out of office. In the meantime, the rules are designed to protect Detroit's SUV and pickup profits.

Witness California's own ignominious retreat from its original zero-emission vehicle mandate in 1996, or its surrender in 2009 of a bizarre plan to regulate the colors of automobiles.

Behind their frozen smiles, auto makers lobbied hard for a "midterm review" in the federal and California schemes to facilitate the necessary logrolling. Especially with respect to California's mandate—which after 2017 would require manufacturers to make and sell hundreds of thousands more electric cars than the public has shown any appetite to buy—the only suspense has been what contortions the state would adopt to avoid disaster.

Better to understand the fuel-economy circus, then, as politicians trying to hit two rhetorical bogeys at once. These bogeys are in conflict: The public wants cheap gasoline and wants to be told that we are weaning ourselves off gasoline. The resulting policy makes no sense, but works just fine as rhetoric. For politicians, remember, what matters is the press release today, not the supposed outcome in some halcyon by-and-by.

Alas, this doesn't mean auto makers in the meantime won't incur large expenses and losses due to the mandates (what else do those ZEV credits bought from Tesla represent?).

It doesn't mean Detroit and its foreign counterparts won't spend many millions on lobbying and campaign donations to keep politicians receptive to the need to modify the rules in ways auto makers hope to game to their individual advantage.

It doesn't mean in the next few years loss-leader electric cars from other manufacturers won't be polluting the market for more sincere efforts like Tesla's Model S and the Chevy Volt.

Few are prepared to admit how corrupting and nonsensical are the U.S.'s own auto policies. On a happier note, these policies at least represent a low-hanging fruit. Any time Washington wants to lure more auto investment than China is getting, it can just roll back the enormous tax its crazy mandates place on auto makers.
TODAY'S MARKETS
Stocks Finish Strong
By Jonathan Cheng
Updated May 14, 2013 4:36 p.m. ET
Stocks climbed to fresh records, as investors continued to bid up shares geared to an accelerating global economy.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average advanced 123.57 points, or 0.8%, to 15215.25, finishing at a record for the 19th time this year. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 16.57 points, or 1%, to 1650.34, its eighth record close in nine days. The Nasdaq Composite Index added 23.82 points, or 0.7%, to 3462.61.

Topping the list of advancers were financial, energy, materials and industrial stocks, on a day when all 10 of the S&P 500 sectors ended in positive territory. Those sectors are most closely tied with an improving global economy and stand in contrast to several months of outperformance by stable, less economically sensitive sectors.



Tuesday, May 14: Sony Among Key Stocks to Watch
Alexandra Scaggs details key stocks to watch during Tuesday's trading day. Photo: Getty Images.

Small Business News Adding to Markets Strength
U.S. futures were higher on advance of Tuesday's trading day on positive regarding small business strength. Alexandra Scaggs has details, and highlights Sony and other key stocks to watch. Photo: Getty Images.
Since the beginning of the month, consumer-discretionary, financial and industrial stocks have roared ahead, picking up ground on sectors like health care and consumer staples that led the way in the opening months of the year.

Bank of America rose 36 cents, or 2.8%, to $13.34, and American Express advanced 1.72, or 2.5%, to 71.51, to lead the Dow components, while Travelers rose 1.40, or 1.6%, to 87.90.

Intel fell 24 cents, or 1%, to 23.84, in a reflection of relative weakness among technology companies. Apple , the biggest component among tech stocks, declined 10.88, or 2.4%, to 443.86.


﻿ Tuesday's gains extended a phenomenon on the Dow that has seen the blue-chip measure rise for 18 consecutive Tuesdays. While the trend has largely been dismissed as a curiosity with little significance for the longer term, many traders have been watching it in recent weeks, particularly those who focus on technical chart patterns.

"Statistics like that are somewhat ridiculous, but in this case, people are definitely paying attention to it," said Michael Marrale, head of research, sales and trading at ITG, a New York brokerage firm.


IN THE MARKETS

Bank Stocks Leap
MoneyBeat: VIX 'Fear Gauge,' Stocks Move Together
Rival to S&P 500 Option Sputters
Morning MoneyBeat: The Mother of All Short Squeezes
Stock futures started the early U.S. morning in negative territory but moved higher and sustained the gains through the closing bell. Some traders said the market got some help from unexpectedly positive comments on the outlook by hedge-fund manager David Tepper. Mr. Tepper, who runs Appaloosa Management LP, said during an interview on CNBC that he was "definitely bullish" on the market, citing improvements in the housing and auto markets.

Mr. Tepper's remarks came amid worries about the impact of the Federal Reserve potentially tapering off its purchases of bonds, which have supported the economic recovery in recent years.


"I don't know how many pieces of research I get from strategists saying, 'Wait for the pullback' or 'Sell in May,' which works every year until it doesn't," said Dan Veru, chief investment officer of Palisade Capital Management, which oversees nearly $4 billion in assets.

While noting that Mr. Tepper was "not just another bull," Mr. Veru said his remarks echoed what some in the market had believed: that many big investors are still reluctant to join the rally and will push stocks even higher if and when they do come around.

"I've never seen so much anger and consternation out there, and how many big asset allocators are telling me they're terrified of the markets," Mr. Veru said. "That's all further fuel as that future capital comes begrudgingly into the market."

In economic news, an April reading of small-business optimism topped expectations, while import prices declined last month from the previous month, in line with expectations, amid declining oil costs.

European markets, which had traded broadly lower, followed the U.S. markets higher. The Stoxx Europe 600 reversed earlier declines to finish with a 0.4% gain, while Germany's DAX index rose 0.7% to close at a record, despite a disappointing reading of German economic expectations. Elsewhere, euro-zone industrial production increased.

Asian markets closed mostly lower, led by a 1.1% drop in China's Shanghai Composite Index amid concerns over economic growth in the wake of recent lackluster April data. Japan's Nikkei Stock Average slipped 0.2% as some strengthening in the yen weighed on exporter shares. However, Australia's S&P/ASX 200 gained 0.2% to its highest closing level since June 2008.

Crude oil lost 1%, to $94.21 a barrel, while gold declined 0.7%, to $1,424.70 a troy ounce. Demand for Treasurys fell, pushing the yield on the 10-year note up to 1.952%.

Among stock movers, the U.S.-listed shares of Japan's Sony jumped 1.87, or 9.9%, to 20.76, after Daniel Loeb, founder of hedge fund Third Point, which has acquired about 6.3% of the company's shares, proposed that Sony spin off up to 20% of its entertainment arm.


Tesla Motors saw its early gains turn to a decline of 4.56, or 5.2%, to 83.24, one day after jumping 14%. The maker of electric vehicles came into the session up 159% since the beginning of the year, and up 57% since reporting its first-ever quarterly profit last week.

Write to Jonathan Cheng at jonathan.cheng@wsj.com
HEARD ON THE STREET
Getting the Short Story on Tesla Motors
By Justin Lahart
May 9, 2013 4:57 p.m. ET
Some investors bet that Tesla 's TSLA 1.76% stock is an accident waiting to happen. So far, the only thing that's gotten wrecked is those investors' own performance.

After announcing its first-ever quarterly profit late Wednesday, the electric-car maker saw its shares surge 24% Thursday. With a market value of $7.9 billion, Tesla is now worth more than Fiat .

That gain in part reflects what Tesla has accomplished. Early on, Chief Executive Elon Musk elucidated a plan: First, build a high-performance electric sports car, to prove it could be done. Second, market a luxury car that broadens Tesla's appeal. Finally, produce an affordable mass-market electric car.



Whether Tesla will pull off that final step is uncertain. Infrastructure that makes owning an electric car practical for most Americans isn't yet in place. Tesla will also have to compete with established auto makers that are making the internal combustion engine far more efficient.

But Tesla has completed the first step, and looks likely to accomplish the second. It now expects to sell 21,000 cars this year, more than the 20,000 it has said it needs to be profitable.

So whatever the probability of Tesla's ultimate success was, say, a year ago, it is higher now. Since its shares largely represent an option on that, they are worth more.

But Thursday's spurt also reflected how many bets investors had placed against Tesla's success. At last count, about 40% of Tesla's freely tradable shares were sold short. The scramble to buy back borrowed shares added gas to Tesla's rally.


Tesla's shares, now trading at about 560 times expected 2013 earnings, look beyond pricey. But investors who bet against the company while it is still managing to tick off the boxes in Mr. Musk's plan are driving fast without a seat belt.

Write to Justin Lahart at justin.lahart@wsj.com
EARNINGS
Tesla Posts Its First Quarterly Profit
By Cassandra Sweet
May 8, 2013 9:07 p.m. ET
Tesla Motors Inc. said it earned $11.2 million in the first quarter of 2013 as deliveries of Model S electric vehicles lifted the maker of luxury electric cars to its first quarterly profit.

The company—which had reported a loss in every quarter since it went public in 2010—said Wednesday it recognized revenue from 4,900 Model S vehicles in the first period, up from the company's previous outlook for 4,500 cars in the quarter.

Revenue totaled $562 million, up from $30.2 million a year ago. On a per-share basis, earnings were zero. Tesla posted a net loss of $89.9 million a year earlier.


Shares of Tesla jumped 18% to $65.76 in after-hours trading Wednesday.

NOW REPORTING

Track the performances of 150 companies as they report and compare their results with analysts' estimates. Sort by date and industry.


More photos and interactive graphics
The Palo Alto, Calif., company is trying to become the first successful automotive startup in the U.S. since the 1920s. As recently as six months ago, the company was forced to sell shares to raise cash and avert a liquidity crisis. Also, Tesla had struggled with delayed deliveries from suppliers that slowed production.

Tesla said its production of Model S vehicles was 400 or more per week, for a total of more than 5,000 vehicles during the first quarter. The company has said it needs to produce at a rate of 20,000 vehicles a year to be profitable.


The company said it is receiving orders for more than 20,000 vehicles a year world-wide, and plans to build about 5,000 Model S vehicles in the second quarter. Tesla plans to deliver about 4,500 vehicles in the second quarter and deliver about 21,000 vehicles during 2013.

Of those cars, Tesla is likely to deliver about 15,000 vehicles to customers in North America, 5,000 to Europe and about 1,000 to Asia, Tesla Chairman and Chief Executive Elon Musk said. He added that the company plans to ramp up production after it resolves manufacturing-efficiency issues.

"I think there's potential next year for a fairly significant increase in volume as we test the depth of the demand that's out there," Mr. Musk said during a conference call with analysts. "I think [demand] is probably quite a bit higher than we originally thought."

Mr. Musk added that when the company ramps up production, he expects to see "at least 10,000 units a year from demand in Europe and at least 5,000 in Asia."

Tesla launched a new financing program earlier this year that guarantees the value of the Model S after three years, giving buyers the ability to trade in the vehicle to the company at a designated residual value.

The financing options have made the car more affordable to a wider range of buyers, Mr. Musk said. The company is considering additional changes that would make the Model S more attractive to potential customers, such as reducing the deposit that customers have to put down, from $5,000 currently to "some lower number," Mr. Musk said.

Tesla said that excluding one-time items, adjusted quarterly earnings were $15 million, or 12 cents a share. Gross margin was 17%, up from 8% in the fourth quarter.

Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected earnings of four cents a share on revenue of $500 million.

—Mike Ramsey contributed to this article.

Write to Cassandra Sweet at cassandra.sweet@dowjones.com

NY REAL ESTATE COMMERCIAL
Tesla Site Powers Ahead
Long Island Laboratory Used by Electricity Pioneer Is Bought by Nonprofit Group
By Will James
May 7, 2013 10:10 p.m. ET
A Long Island nonprofit has purchased the last remaining laboratory of Nikola Tesla, the scientist who pioneered the alternating-current system of delivering electricity and dreamed of transmitting electric power through the air.

The nonprofit, Friends of Science East, worked for 16 years to acquire and preserve the property known as Wardenclyffe in Shoreham, N.Y., before raising more than $1.3 million in online contributions during a 45-day fund drive last year.

The Shoreham, N.Y., laboratory of Nikola Tesla in a 2012 photo.
The Shoreham, N.Y., laboratory of Nikola Tesla in a 2012 photo. ASSOCIATED PRESS
Matthew Inman, the cartoonist behind the Oatmeal, a humor website, organized and promoted the fundraiser, helping surpass the original goal of $850,000 in just six days. More than 33,000 people from 108 countries contributed to the drive.

Friends of Science East purchased the 16-acre property from Agfa-Gevaert Group for $850,000 on May 2. The Belgian maker of analog and digital imaging systems has owned the site since 1969 but stopped manufacturing there in 1987.

EARLIER

Effort to Save Tesla Lab Gets Surprise Web Jolt
Friends of Science East hopes to establish a Tesla museum, a science learning center, workshops for inventors and a physics-themed playground on the overgrown property, where several buildings have stood vacant for decades.

"We still have a long way to go toward the ultimate goal of a completed science center," said Jane Alcorn, a retired schoolteacher who leads the nonprofit. "So we're, for the moment, taking a deep breath and enjoying the success, but we're also recognizing the work that's ahead of us."

Ms. Alcorn said the group needs to raise an estimated $10 million to bring its plans to fruition. It has started boarding up and locking buildings, and plans to assess which ones can be restored and incorporated into plans for the site and which must be razed.

Tesla, who died in 1943, purchased Wardenclyffe in 1901 and built a 187-foot tower, which he hoped to use to send wireless Morse code messages and to transmit electricity through the atmosphere.

After experimenting with the spire, he lost his equipment to creditors and sold the property in 1915. The tower was demolished, but Tesla's brick laboratory building still stands.


Ms. Alcorn said she's relieved someone else didn't buy the property and knock down the laboratory.

"It's very gratifying feeling to see the fruits of your labor come to a kind of conclusion where we can actually now say we've saved the site and can move to the next phase," she said.

Christopher Santomassimo, North American general counsel for Agfa-Gevaert, said the company "is proud to be associated, albeit in a small way, with this historic event."
AUTOS - INDUSTRY
Tesla Motors Revamps Sales Program
By Mike Ramsey And  Joseph B. White
May 3, 2013 6:03 p.m. ET
Tesla Motors Inc. TSLA 1.76% said it revamped a month-old sales program that guarantees the resale value of its about $70,000 plug-in electric car after the program was widely criticized.

A new offer guarantees that the Model S will be worth at least 50% of its original cost after three years, up from 43%. As part of its new financing program, Tesla would agree to buy cars back from owners at that price, regardless of third-party estimates of what the car might be worth.

RELATED VIDEO


Five Cars Most Likely to Be Dumped
Most people buy a car with the goal of getting as much out of it as possible before trading it in. MarketWatch's Jim Jelter discusses five cars Americans are most likely to trade in sooner than planned. (Photo: Getty Images)
The Palo Alto, Calif., company also is revising an online calculator to determine the monthly cost of a lease-to-purchase program. The revision would make the cost savings estimate more conservative by excluding such factors as time saved by not having to pump gas. Features of Tesla's earlier online cost calculator had prompted criticism for lowering the monthly payment presented to shoppers by using noncash savings.


"When we did our first financing announcement a month ago, we didn't get it quite right," Chief Executive Elon Musk said in a conference call. "This is backed by me personally to give peace of mind about the long-term value of the product."

The deal also set up a lease residual at that three-year level. Critics said the S-class wasn't a good vehicle to peg the value, so Tesla then used the average of all its competitors in the same class of vehicle and raised the percentage to 50%.

"If we really believe we are making the best car, we should provide the best resale values," Mr. Musk said. The offer will be retroactive for customers who bought their Teslas under the original deal.

The result could mean a lease payment that falls to $800 from around $1,100 for a Model S with a 60 kilowatt-hour battery pack, Mr. Musk said. Additionally, Tesla now will offer loans of up to 72 months instead of topping out at 63 months.

"We appreciate the feedback from a number of journalists and customers that the first version of our financing product wasn't quite right. They were right, so we are fixing it and, moreover, upping the ante by providing the best resale value guarantee in the automotive industry," Mr. Musk said.

Write to Mike Ramsey at michael.ramsey@wsj.com and Joseph B. White at joseph.white@wsj.com

